Miami City Commissioner Ken Russell - Legislative Accomplishments

Economy & Housing:

Established a program to help low-income, elderly, disabled, and veteran homeowners afford home repair.
Passed a $15 hour living wage for all workers contracted through the city.
Sponsored a pilot program to allow motorized scooters in District 2, giving residents a last-mile mobility option, while also directing the money generated from the program to build new bike lanes in downtown and other parts of the district.
Sponsored an ordinance allowing for the creation of micro-units to combat Miami's affordable housing crisis.
Incentivized affordable housing in the Historic Village West through the creation of a Community Redevelopment Agency (CRA).
Sponsored an inclusionary zoning ordinance that mandates developers seeking entitlements within a certain area north of downtown include a percentage of affordable housing in their projects.
Sponsored a citywide “attainable housing” ordinance to add incentives for developers to build more affordable housing projects.
Sponsored a rule change that strengthened enforcement of the City’s affordable/workforce housing requirements and covenants.

Climate Change & Environment:

Banned Styrofoam use in city parks & marinas.
Sponsored a resolution to have the city join a 2016 Amicus Curiae Brief on the Clean Power Act requiring the EPA to cap carbon emissions.
Passed a resolution opposing off-shore drilling and seismic air gun blasting for the city of Miami.
Passed an ordinance banning fertilizer with phosphorus and setting restrictions on what kind of fertilizers can be used on public and private grounds. Fertilizers must also be applied at least 15 feet away from bodies of water.
Passed the Miami Forever Bond, providing $400 million for capital improvements and resiliency initiatives in the City of Miami, without raising taxes.
Expanded the PACE program that provides energy efficiency financing and alternative energy improvements for home use.
Passed an Environmental Crimes ordinance shutting down construction sites that pollute the bay.

Discrimination & Transparency in Government:

Established the Citizen Advisory Board (CAB) to monitor Miami Police compliance with DOJ consent decree.
Strengthened the Citizen Investigative Panel (CIP) with a budget that would increase proportionally with the police budget so that investigative accountability would be adequately funded.
Passed an ordinance banning conversion therapy for members of the LGBT community. 
Passed a resolution condemning discriminatory policies against Muslims. 
Passed a resolution in support of DACA and TPS recipients.
Established Fred Korematsu Day to be celebrated every year in the city of Miami in support of diversity and human rights.
Changed the municipal code to add gender neutral language.

Ken Business Bio / Accomplishments:

Miami City Commissioner Ken Russell has served on the Miami City Commission for six years and is a candidate for US Senate. As a commissioner Ken’s priorities have been addressing the affordable housing crisis, climate change, sea level rise, environmental issues, and resilience.

Ken represents Miami City Commission District 2, which covers parts of downtown Miami, Edgewater, Brickell, and Coconut Grove. Prior to serving on the Miami City Commission, Ken was an International Business Executive and has done business in over 40 different countries.

Ken and his wife Julianna reside in Coconut Grove and have three lovely children.

Major Accomplishments:

Passed the Miami Forever Bond, providing $400 million for capital improvements and resiliency initiatives in the City of Miami, without raising taxes.
Incentivized affordable housing in the Historic Village of West Grove through the creation of a Community Redevelopment Agency (CRA).
Established a program to help low-income, elderly, disabled, and veteran homeowners afford home repair.
Expanded the PACE program that provides energy efficiency financing and alternative energy improvements for home use.

Board Associations:

Vice Chairman, Miami City Commission
Chairman, Coconut Grove Business Improvement District
Chairman, OMNI Community Redevelopment Agency
Chairman, West Grove CRA
Board Member, Everglades Trust
Board Member, Frost Science Museum 


Ken LGBTQ Bio:


Miami City Commissioner Ken Russell has served on the Miami City Commission for six years and is a candidate for US Senate. As a Miami City Commissioner, Ken has been a strong ally for the LGBTQ+ community. He created a LGBTQ+ advisory board, passed an ordinance banning conversion therapy in Miami, and organized a 26 city Amicus Brief to support Boca Raton on their conversion therapy lawsuit. He also ensured that the City of Miami Charter was rewritten in gender neutral language. 

Ken represents Miami City Commission District 2, which covers parts of downtown Miami, Edgewater, Brickell, and Coconut Grove. Prior to serving on the Miami City Commission, Ken was a water sports salesman and professional yo-yo player, where he did business in over 40 different countries. Ken and his wife Julianna reside in Coconut Grove and have three lovely children.

Ken Environment Bio:

Miami City Commissioner Ken Russell has served on the Miami City Commission for six years and is a candidate for US Congress in FL-27. As a commissioner Ken’s priorities have been addressing the affordable housing crisis, climate change, sea level rise, and water quality issues. 

Ken represents Miami City Commission District 2, which covers parts of downtown Miami, Edgewater, Brickell, and Coconut Grove. Prior to serving on the Miami City Commission, Ken was a water sports salesman and professional yo-yo player, where he did business in over 40 different countries. Ken and his wife Julianna reside in Coconut Grove and have three lovely children.

Environmental Legislative Achievements:
Banned Styrofoam use in city parks & marinas.
Sponsored a resolution to have the city join a 2016 Amicus Curiae Brief on the Clean Power Act requiring the EPA to cap carbon emissions.
Passed a resolution opposing off-shore drilling and seismic airgun blasting for the city of Miami.
Passed an ordinance banning fertilizer with phosphorus and setting restrictions on what kind of fertilizers can be used on public and private grounds. Fertilizers must also be applied at least 15 feet away from bodies of water.
Passed the Miami Forever Bond, providing $400 million for capital improvements and resiliency initiatives in the City of Miami, without raising taxes.
Expanded the PACE program that provides energy efficiency financing and alternative energy improvements for home use.
Passed an Environmental Crimes ordinance shutting down construction sites that pollute the bay.

Ken AAPI Bio:
Miami City Commissioner Ken Russell is the first Japanese American to serve on the Miami City Commission and represents District 2, which covers parts of downtown Miami, Edgewater, Brickell, and Coconut Grove.  He has been on the Miami City Commission for six years and is currently a candidate for US Senate.

Prior to serving on the Miami City Commission, Ken was an International Business Executive and has done business in over 40 different countries. Ken wants to bring his experience to the federal government to grow Florida’s international trade.

